hey YouTube I'm about to pimp my left on
kale crew this is a girl that's been at
Bass gym last week she came as a special
guest she's been hanging out with my
girls which is the base body babes who
work with me at base gym and they
invited a comeback today which is gonna
be her last day in Australia before she
goes away to Canada and she wanted to
bench press so that means she's going to
be training with me and that means I'm
gonna be pimping her lifts for you guys
and she doesn't know yet but I'm sure
she will be a good sport about so why
don't you guys check out how I teach
someone my bench press technique this is
someone who have never seen train before
so it'll be good for you guys to see how
I break down I don't know if she's gonna
be good or not maybe she used my
technique already but you guys are gonna
find out now check it out very lucky to
have her here base gym today and she
wants to do a bench press session so I
don't know what how she bench press is I
don't know all I've been told she's her
best is 145 pounds something like that
for one rep and we talked him in one
reps here as well so it's a safe zone
and I thought I'd get her in here and
see exactly what she does and if she's
doing everything perfectly my job is to
let her
there's some way that I can help or peep
her lift that's what we're going to do
today so come and check it out the very
first thing that I do is give it a lay
down on a bench and show me what she
does because if it's perfect I ain't
changing a thing on this one
[Music]
my opinion that's a very nice benchpress
that's not the way that I do not that
there's anything wrong with that
all right why do I say that is that's a
kind of a conservative set up a little
bit more aggressive with my setup okay
so actually very good coordination what
I mean by that is a shortened position
was good your chess position was good
your spine position was good if they
were very flat but we're not using them
very much so I'm gonna get you to
position your feet so that you can use
them to drive that bench up a little bit
better so let's do this sit at the edge
of the bench oh yes so when you feel the
edge advance you're gonna lay down so
that's the way that you sit so you're
not gonna bang it on the back slide back
say here's off the bench
bring it back onto the balls of your
feet from here I want you to think about
pushing heels down like this relax
everything down gently
but now keep this downward pressure
through the algebra thought if I talk
about forever could imagine the lowering
of our
so you exhale which is okay it's just my
way I like to hold a read through the
entire set so in my world that means
strong and loose equals weak feedback
because it's not comfortable comfortable
that it is laying at home on the couch
with beer in your hand or a glass of
wine whatever you prefer this is not
comfortable but tight is a word that I
do like to hear because tight is exactly
what I want out of those backpacks
we're gonna go up the tightness that you
feel when you do this for the first time
is usually here you need flexors and the
quadriceps those quadriceps are hip
flexors so that's I'm putting them at a
full stretch position so this is I'm
just talking about the back position I
never worked through pain so I asked
Kady that hurt her and the answer was no
and it was tight so that is to be
expected with this technique what I'm
ultimately after is the scapular
position so the shoulder blades need to
be back and down the entire so did that
now so squeezing back and down
so naturally she arched just by doing
that so it's called the four-step
relationship but the shoulder blades
have moved the way that they I want them
to move the spine needs to extend off
much so it's not like a lot of people
look at the options that
low back it's not the low back that I'm
arching it's the upper back or I'm
arching sir Sam said I forgave him a
slight back
so his off the bench get further back if
that actually hits off the good
now bring your feet like that an inch
but never steals down and kind of relax
motions down that slide now
a whole set five reps one round five
reps one
full bar top hill sandwich down but keep
on your breath
now one thing that I do see the change
in the room so you're very rigid there's
a lot of techniques that are taught so
so you're doing this very correctly
according to a textbook but it's not
great okay so there's a technique in
bench-pressing where you supposed to
tuck your elbows to protect your
shoulders and you're doing that a little
bit too well okay it's a little bit
exaggerated I want you to relax them a
little bit more just the position that
you're in the arch position and the
retraction and the pressure of your
scapula is naturally paired with
external rotation of the shoulder joint
so they naturally don't force a tuck
okay okay what you're looking for when
you're forcing a tuck there's the hand
there's ill but the Oberer needs to be
exactly underneath the hand and it's not
okay so there's no efficiency see how
I'm standing my whole weight is stacked
over my joints I'm not leaning forward
like this okay I won't be able to do
that so that's not efficient and that's
what we don't like by tucking the elbows
too much it becomes a tricep big
movement yeah okay so on the next set
try and relax
so you're not tucking the next thing is
those four reasons they're too perfect
okay they're very straight but that's
not strong I want you to think of this
if you've got really angry I mean
hit me in the face as hard as it could
what part of Manhattan New York so
imagine that okay your hand will be
cocked back you wouldn't be here you
break your fingers
okay you'd want to hit with this bunny
head so I don't know if you can see
discoloration in my hand right there
that's a callus from from bench presses
okay okay
I compare this with the best bench press
in the world whose name is Kirill
Saatchi and he's got the same thing
you're pushing through the part that
lines up with your ol man okay so that's
that's the strongest part you're not
holding it in this part of your hand and
when you reach this straight it's
resting it done it's not strong okay so
when you grab it
[Music]
did 10x yeah that should be really easy
so this is the position that I'm after
the bench press with the shortwave bands
about you know that will then we go to a
full stretch position but then you bring
them back and down for two back pockets
and that's where I want you to hold on
to the entire bench do you get any pain
in your wrist
let's let's keep it that way if it
started to burn at all because I'm
actually not to slightly bend your
respect so wait if we hand out where you
need to be holding this is through
getting okay that's where the pressure
needs to be not through here that's weak
that's so exactly see that the edge of
the bench could go lay down slide backs
up the bench end of the position of the
bottom set up I want the solid would
speak forty-five great it's a little bit
more a little bit less that's why but
that's kind of what I was important too
much or too little you want to get the
maximum tension so about forty five
degrees so the reason why we slide back
so we can get does tuck your elbows let
them go where they want to go so
anything you I'd say even think about
wearing them a little bit okay become a
line linked in the line
[Music]
oh damn dance always backing down full
bar to perfection perfection no surprise
we may attract it's enough to do that
back to correct alignment all it is is
just perfect alignment
okay I keep on saying it's like I'm
standing stacked over my joint I'm on
the hand over the over okay so when you
play it's like that must be on top
the reason why we tuck the elbows is
that get that song and also to create
space for all of the pendants to pass
freely through the shoulder okay when
the elbows are flared and 90 degrees
we're closing the space between the
humerus and the acromion so there's no
room for the supraspinatus tendon to
pass through okay so we just need a
little bit that's it and also we need to
just talk a little bit to get the not
too much okay
I like to pair the lat pulldown with
this for two reasons
we're getting twice this workout in the
same time and and also it teaches the
shoulders where to move exactly where I
wanted to be for that for that bench
place I'm not sure what set this is but
we're up to 14 kilograms and we're
moving quite slowly so we're going by a
few kilo jumps I know that this is a
weight that you can do but if we jump
too quickly when we're learning a new
technique you'll revert back to your old
technique so we don't want that to
happen okay sitting on the edge of the
bench laying down sliding your head back
so if it's off the bench bring your feet
back
[Music]
when they over to the bar
good yes filling the heel of the hand
okay fantastic so it's a
misinterpretation okay so we keep the
wrist straight the rests are made to
bend right don't them all the way
back that's just inefficient at home
that part of the hand is in line with
the ulna if you were to hit someone in
the face like me I annoyed you you'd
want to hit me did that part of the hand
let's go this from that pull down okay
well if I've killed another same thing
good pinky online feedback up on the
balls of faith goes down if the whole
time
I like friendship hug yep
so there is my second chip is is so that
when I wrap around anything but
hopefully can go to get your mistrust
when you get home
which kneel down into the line good spy
operation
no uncomfortable okay
what I need for her to do is keep your
shoulder blades back and down as hard as
possible and what she's doing and what
most people actually do when they're
learning is the technique is engage
their pecs to hold that weight which Pro
tracks the shoulder blades which takes
you out of position so what you need to
do it's like when I'm standing here it's
like what muscles am i using well none
I'm just resting on my bones I want you
to do the same thing so what are those
bones you're resting on your resting
through your arm yeah that's the humerus
sits in the scapula and the scapula is
doing here I'm squeezing your shoulder
blades back down towards your back
pockets scapula see the bones here
that's a stable base of support the
moment the shoulder blade pro tracks
that scapula moves off the bench and is
using muscles not structure I don't
stand like this it's me standing on my
muscles I stand on structure so that's
we've got a 55-minute so now the
feedback for there is to the shoulder
blades back and down ok so I remember
that so you
want to use your pick muscles but don't
you're gonna trust that I'm holding that
way and you're gonna rest it on the
structure how do you do that
let's squeeze it back down as high as
you can don't use your pegs to hold that
way
use your structure to hold that way okay
lock the elbows and I'm gonna gently
release it into your hands
I've got you okay
let's slide back slide back so there is
no perfection bring the feet back from
the balls of the face
push the heels down good hot chocolate
like oh by the way I shall is my
katakana it's the only weapon to it
they'll put one more example salmon
salmon
so when you're learning a new skill just
do it as easily as possible
introduce new cues later okay so just
touch and go touch and go and then and
then as you get better than that
you can add walls work in your training
as well as uncoolest work
they're both effective but most workers
were you doing competition being
competing exactly so you know it's a
good stimulus who falls with anything
while the deadly off with benchpress as
well but it's not just pulling that back
just trust me on there put it in the
perfect position I'm gonna hold it and
I'm only going to let go when I know you
though
okay so just have faith you do reps that
you go okay sitting on the edge of the
bench slide back so your heads up the
bench bring your feet back up onto the
balls of the feet which the heels down
good slider position heels down hot legs
back up down
yeah okay it's okay you can talk so I
don't want to go heavier yeah no go do
another set
yeah and I said oh okay so so that's
maybe not too much back towards me for
the next one that's a big one
so the next one I had I'm sorry I wasn't
enforcing a lot of things it's just like
doing
to get this drug but now with the
machine and that's that's what will help
a lot
okay holding that breath okay ready
okay
let's do this okay
[Music]
[Applause]
okay that was a very simple benchpress
program so all we did was worked up to
pretty much one or two top sets we're
going to be doing a whole bunch of other
work but that's a little bit of it
behind the scenes on how I teach the
competition style arch the way that I
teach them how did that feel for you so
that's good feedback so now the homework
for her is to do it a little bit more
for those who don't already know I'm
sure you're already following but where
can we find you you're on social media
you're on Instagram
give her a follow and check how her
progress goes in the future thanks guys
thanks Katie okay now I know we just did
an outro video but I can assure you we
did a little bit of work after that and
my amazing videographer has just shown
me that he captured in our highlight
session a few of her back down sets that
I did with Katie and I'm going to show
you guys so that you know the exact
homework that I've given her so I'm not
going to go into the technique details
that was all done in the main work she
got up to a 60 kilogram a set of 60
kilograms for three reps which was great
after this we dropped the weight I
didn't think about percentages or
anything like that I thought of a weight
that's going to be nice and easy for her
to perform with perfect technique for a
lot of reps and the way that i
prescribed my loads for my programs is I
start with the conservative weight so
that it gives them room to be able to
progress every week so check out the
video we started her on 40 kilograms and
I got her to do three sets of eight reps
on 40 kilograms why eight reps because
it's a good enough rep range to be able
to practice that movement with the
weight that she can respect have a look
at what she's doing I like to work them
up to a relatively heavy weight and then
ingrained that technique once we've
mastered the technique we'll go to do
reps andressa reps of it how many reps
10,000 reps that's the rule not in the
same session of course she just needs to
practice it a lot with a weight that she
can respect so that's 40 kilograms so
that's quite light based on the way that
she's moving this is the homework that
I've given her is next week to go up to
45 the week after go up to 50 and I'm
sure that you look great
she will be out
to do that 50 kilograms obviously is
going to be a lot more challenging than
this but I know that she's got the
strength to do this especially after a
few good weeks of solid practice with
his perfect technique so we've only
captured two sets but I promise you we
did three now I'm gonna pause it right
here so that two sets done give it a
nice fist barb palm good stuff Katie now
pause it here we go on to her
supplementary movements now
unfortunately we've only got a couple of
reps here but you can see the exercises
I've given her is a seated dumbbell
shoulder press so something that I like
to prescribe after my main work so her
main work is the bench press now we move
on to the supplementary lifts the
supplement my rules for prescription of
supplementary movements is to choose an
exercise that goes through the ranges of
motion and the joint angles that I've
neglected in the main work so the main
work was an arch bench press competition
style which is actually a reduced range
of motion and it's in a horizontal push
plan so what do I want to do a joint
angle that we haven't used in the main
movement which is a vertical push plan
so it's my favorite accessory exercise
in the push pattern is to do the joint
angle that you've neglected in the main
work so we did horizontal in the main
work we're going to do vertical in the
supplementary movement and I like to do
dumbbells as well because the dumbbell
allows us to do a few things one it
allows us to go through a longer range
of motion without the bar hang our chest
like I did in the bench press and two
it's going to allow us to change the
grip angle so that we can use a neutral
grip that's my favorite bit for all of
my dumbbell variations for a number of
reasons one it's better for your
shoulder two it allows you to angle the
dumbbells in a way to go through a
longer range of motion without hitting
your chest or your shoulders or anywhere
on your body and three it's a much safer
position for your shoulders to be
externally rotated in that full stretch
position so that is my favorite way of
performing a dumbbell press check it out
press play you only see two reps here
but I promise you she also did three
sets of eight now what's that wait there
she's got 10 kilograms again it's a very
light weight something that she's going
to be able to progress from so the next
increment
there is 12 and a half kilograms usually
most gyms all around the world go up in
about two Nerja killer increments so
that was my recommendation for the next
session so that's it now this is the
proper outro that was pimp my left that
was Session two actually last week I did
myself this week I did Katie crew thank
you so much Katie for joining me on keep
my lifts thank you for letting me pimp
your left and I hope you guys at home
enjoyed watching that click like
subscribe comment below if there's
anything you like me to or any person
that you'd like me to pimp their lifts
on our next series I am reading all of
the comments so comment away hope you
guys enjoyed it and I'll see you guys
next time
[Music]